[Music]
check around the corner
under the bed wait what's that hiding
over there
hotels are supposed to be your home away
from home but do you know what secrets
they're keeping
here's what no staff member or manager
would ever tell you
[Music]
some hotel owners are very superstitious
of the number 13
or they know guests might be whatever
the case
you may find room 13 or the entire 13th
floor
completely missing in the far east the
same can be said about the number four
you can easily get an upgraded room
without any additional charge
if you have a birthday anniversary or
wedding
just call ahead of time and warn them
about the upcoming event
you might be checking that bed for
stains and bugs but you're probably
overlooking the dirtiest thing in the
room the tv remote
it doesn't get disinfected between
guests put it in a plastic sandwich
baggie before using it
plenty of other filthy things in that
room but we'll touch on those later
every hotel has a place where
housekeeping stores forgotten things
the most frequently lost items are phone
chargers
but more interesting discoveries have
been found false teeth
glass eyes and even boxes of worms
if no one comes for these strange
treasures after five or ten years
yes they're nice enough to wait the
cleaners raffle the lost items among
themselves
some luxury ones may have hidden cameras
built in for safety reasons
the most common place for this is the
door peepholes
so always put a piece of masking tape or
putty
over the one in your room but hidden
cameras in the room itself
are never okay to check the place turn
off the overhead light and switch on
your phone's front-facing camera
slowly scan the room your front camera
will pick up their infrared light
common spots are near the bed and in the
bathroom
so check those areas thoroughly
hotel owners often let their friends and
family stay for free
you wouldn't know it since they usually
leave before peak season starts
the employees and cleaners also get in
on some perks
they keep towel slippers bathrobes and
shampoos
but what you might not know is that
hotel chains are fine with you taking
things from the room
stationary toiletries coffee mugs
umbrellas
anything with their name and logo on it
this will serve as free
advertisement when you take those things
with you
those beautiful bright vegetables and
fruits near the hotel restaurants
entrance
aren't just a decoration they trick your
body into feeling full
before you even get your plate you eat
less
and the company saves money they may
give you
extra bottles of shower gel or other
toiletries
but there are ones that charge you for
grabbing too much
food during the breakfast buffet to
avoid upsetting the cooks with the
amount of discarded food
some hotels in certain countries make
their guests pay for anything left
uneaten on the plate no hotel chain
would willingly tell you
how to get the biggest discount for your
stay so
if you have a limited budget make a
reservation
after 6 p.m this is when the sales
department tries to sell
all cancelled reservations at the last
minute that often means cutting the
price down
sometimes in half
the first sunday of the month is the
best time to check in
vacationers are leaving business
travelers haven't arrived yet
so most of the best rooms will be
available
to get the top pick use a special
service called
rooming you can view everything in the
hotel
and choose which room you like the most
just ask the receptionist about it
they won't willingly speak up about
other free services
unless you ask free phone chargers hair
irons
bottled water and board games are among
them they can also order a transfer for
you
book concert or theater tickets and wake
you up
at a specified time hotels can refuse
you a check-in
even if you've paid for a booking in
advance they can cancel your reservation
if you don't show up before 6 pm
if something's holding you up on your
way call and let them know in advance
even if you arrive on time you can still
be denied a room
it usually happens when the hotel is
overbooked in that case
they might redirect you to a different
one even more surprising
the chances of this happening depend on
who you
are young single men couples and groups
of friends
will usually get the boot before a
family or a single
older woman it's because the first group
is usually more flexible about the
unexpected move
before you pounce on that minibar better
check to see if those drinks are sealed
hotel workers say they've had cases
where guests finished
all the provided beverages and then
filled the bottles up with tap water to
avoid paying for them
you didn't hear it from me large chains
often have their own special transport
for
meeting important guests or getting
around town
their own taxis are usually cheaper than
city ones
so if you want to save some money check
the cost of their transport
at the reception but don't ask the
receptionist to recommend where you
should have a meal
the hotel clerk will point you to a
local place that pays them for the
recommendations
even if it's overpriced and tasteless
there
guests don't really pay for the room
itself but for the hotel's location
proximity to the airport the beach
downtown
and famous sites will cost you an
additional amount
yes even if it doesn't have any stars at
all and the conditions inside aren't
great think twice before
handing over your keys for valet parking
there have been cases
when hotel workers took an expensive car
for a joy ride
and even filmed it my car no
[Music]
a famous person could be staying in the
room right next to you
nobody would know it since they get to
use made-up names to conceal their
identity
for the rest of us common folk that's
not allowed
you requested a single room with a big
bed and a nice view of the beach
what you got a room with two small beds
and a lovely view of a brick wall
it happens all the time but they're
supposed to give you compensation
or some free service to make up for the
difference
know your right to this if the manager
doesn't offer
the safe in your room can be anything
but safe
if you have some valuables ask the
receptionist to put them in the main
hotel safe up front
this place is usually much more secure
since all the staff
doesn't have access to it although hotel
chairs and sofas look clean
wait do you see one under a microscope
don't sit on them without first laying
down a towel or blanket you don't know
if the guests before you had their feet
up on the furniture
and their feet would certainly be filthy
since the room's carpets are
rarely shampooed maybe once a year or
even less
that being said don't walk on them
barefoot
if you use slippers or keep your shoes
on make sure to put
shower caps on the bottoms when you pack
them into your suitcase before leaving
same story with that bed before you lie
down on it
know that the cleaning staff might
launder the linens between guests
but not that big beautiful germy
bedspread
don't touch the drinking glasses either
even if they get a wipe down
it was probably with the same cloth used
to clean other surfaces
why well because staff have only
20 to 30 minutes to clean each room
completely
so they need to do it quickly not
thoroughly
things that often get overlooked light
switches door
and drawer handles remotes ironically
enough
it's the things that get touched most
often experts have found that these
items have as much
germs on them as the toilet solution
always bring plenty of antibacterial
wipes
and if you ask about the hotel's
cleaning practices
remember cleaning doesn't mean
disinfecting
choose your words wisely and don't give
the manager
a loophole